README.md, before:

# tfip-miniproject

**budgetr** is a small budget planner application inspired by YNAB. It was coded for me to learn key concepts related to site reliability engineering such as containerisation, Kubernetes and continuous integration/continuous deployment.

**budgetr** is a full stack application with an Angular frontend and a Spring Boot backend. The backend is secured with Spring Security using JWT. The application is containerised and deployed onto a Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) cluster. The frontend also lightly uses Angular Material.

Within the project deadline, I didn't manage to fully deploy onto the Kubernetes cluster, so as of now this project is deployed onto Railway and Vercel; this was done after the project deadline.

## Spring Security

- Upon authenticating through the frontend, the backend returns a JSON web token (JWT).
  - The JWT contains information about the user, as well as a signature, so that the backend can verify that the sender of the JWT is indeed the correct user.
- Some endpoints are not protected, such as authentication endpoints and health check endpoints (these are for GKE).
- Since the backend endpoints hold sensitive information, they are protected.
- The JWT is stored in your local storage through Angular, and then used in the `Authorization` header when making requests to protected endpoints in the backend.
- This token is also used on the frontend to verify that you are permitted to access its endpoints (e.g. the userId in the endpoint is the same as your userId).

## Containerisation and Kubernetes

- Both the frontend and backend are containerised with Docker, with the instructions in the `Dockerfile` of each project directory.
- Each `Dockerfile` makes use of caching of layers for faster builds.
- The manifests for the Kubernetes cluster are in the `k8s` folder.
  - The `Deployment` and `Service` components of each portion of the app are defined in a template `.yaml` file.
  - Both services are internal services.
  - An `Ingress` is meant to expose the services. It can be accessed at [http://34.102.214.43/], but the Spring Boot backend is failing health checks.

## Github Actions for CI/CD

- This project uses GitHub Actions in order to trigger an automated build/deploy workflow upon a push to the main branch.
- The workflow sets up Google Cloud CLI as well as user credentials, before building the Docker images, pushing them to Google Cloud Registry and then deploying these images to GKE.
- There is also a side workflow for continuous testing of tests written in the Spring Boot backend.

Commit message:

new readme with deployment links (after project deadline)

README.md, after:

# tfip-miniproject

**budgetr** is a small budget planner application inspired by YNAB. It was coded for me to learn key concepts related to site reliability engineering such as containerisation, Kubernetes and continuous integration/continuous deployment.

**budgetr** is a full stack application with an Angular frontend and a Spring Boot backend. The backend is secured with Spring Security using JWT. The application is containerised and deployed onto a Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) cluster. The frontend also lightly uses Angular Material.

Within the project deadline, I didn't manage to fully deploy onto the Kubernetes cluster, so as of now this project is deployed onto Railway and Vercel; this was done after the project deadline.

As of the project deadline, the deployment was not ready, but has been resolved since. If you want to have a look, here are the links:

- Kubernetes Ingress endpoint: [http://34.102.214.43/]
- Vercel: [https://tfip-miniproject-ykha.vercel.app/]

## Spring Security

- Upon authenticating through the frontend, the backend returns a JSON web token (JWT).
  - The JWT contains information about the user, as well as a signature, so that the backend can verify that the sender of the JWT is indeed the correct user.
- Some endpoints are not protected, such as authentication endpoints and health check endpoints (these are for GKE).
- Since the backend endpoints hold sensitive information, they are protected.
- The JWT is stored in your local storage through Angular, and then used in the `Authorization` header when making requests to protected endpoints in the backend.
- This token is also used on the frontend to verify that you are permitted to access its endpoints (e.g. the userId in the endpoint is the same as your userId).

## Containerisation and Kubernetes

- Both the frontend and backend are containerised with Docker, with the instructions in the `Dockerfile` of each project directory.
- Each `Dockerfile` makes use of caching of layers for faster builds.
- The manifests for the Kubernetes cluster are in the `k8s` folder.
  - The `Deployment` and `Service` components of each portion of the app are defined in a template `.yaml` file.
  - Both services are internal services.
  - An `Ingress` is meant to expose the services. It can be accessed at [http://34.102.214.43/], but the Spring Boot backend is failing health checks.
    - Some time after the project deadline, a fix has been made and now the app can be visited at the IP address given above.

## Github Actions for CI/CD

- This project uses GitHub Actions in order to trigger an automated build/deploy workflow upon a push to the main branch.
- The workflow sets up Google Cloud CLI as well as user credentials, before building the Docker images, pushing them to Google Cloud Registry and then deploying these images to GKE.
- There is also a side workflow for continuous testing of tests written in the Spring Boot backend.
